You spent a significant amount of time somewhere influenced by intense planar forces or a portal to another plane of existence, such as one of the gate-towns in the Outlands. You're accustomed to experiences that would leave others reeling in terror or enraptured by otherworldly beauty, and you're as comfortable dealing with Celestials and Fiends as you are with vendors in town (who might be one and the same).

Source: Planescape - Adventures in the Multiverse

Prerequisite: Planescape Campaign

Skill Proficiencies: Persuasion, Survival Languages: Two of your choice (Abyssal, Celestial, or Infernal recommended) Equipment: A ring of keys to unknown locks, a blank bookValue: 25gp Weight: 5lbs, an ink pen or quillValue: 2cp Weight: 0, a bottle of black inkValue: 10gp Weight: 0, a set of traveler’s clothesValue: 2gp Weight: 4lbs, and a pouchValue: 5sp Weight: 1lb containing 10 gp.

Feature

Planar Infusion

Living in a gate-town or similar location steeped you in planar energy. You gain the Scion of the Outer Planes feat. In addition, you know where to find free, modest lodging and food in the community you grew up in.

Building a Gate Warden Character

Those who dwell for an extended time near a permanent portal to another plane absorb the essence radiating from the realm beyond. Those influenced by the same plane share similarities in behavior and even physical appearance.

Suggested Characteristics. The influence of an Outer Plane shapes your perspective. The Gate Warden Personality Traits table suggests traits you might adopt for your character.

Gate Warden Personality Traits

d6 | Personality Trait

1 | Strange events and otherworldly creatures don’t faze me.

2 | I think in terms of exchange; something for something, nothing for nothing.

3 | I speak with an unusual cadence.

4 | I pepper my speech with borrowed words or curses from planar languages.

5 | I’ve seen enough to know that you can’t take anyone at face value, so I scrutinize everyone.

6 | I have a superstitious habit I picked up, such as touching iron when I’m nervous or arranging objects in a specific order.

Gate Warden Trinkets. When you make your character, you may roll once on the Gate Warden Trinkets table, instead of on the Trinkets table in the Player's Handbook, for your starting trinket.

Gate Warden Trinkets

d6 | Trinket

1 | A tiny vial pendant, filled with a drip of honey that glows faintly

2 | A small lead ingot with a strange thumbprint pressed into it that whispers when held tightly

3 | Two lodestone spheres that chime when they attract each other

4 | A smoldering pebble of coal that, while always hot, doesn’t burn skin, fur, scales, or clothing

5 | A feather that sheds dim light in a 5-foot radius.

6 | A ring made from a chain link that, once donned, won’t come off without pulling painfully hard